# 14th July, 2021

## 外刊阅读

### Unexpected Twists(National Geographic - July 2021)

  1.  Sometimes the best images are not the ones we plan for.
2.  but really I was rushing headlong into becoming a photographer.
3.  Imagine what **separates** you from one of the ocean`s apex **predators** is less than one inch of plastic--and that plastic is bright yellow, a color some sharks find very attractive. Fortunately for me, the sharks never showed aggression toward my long-slung craft. I was able to follow them at close range and obverse their natural behavior.
4.  Actually capturing the image, though, turned out to be complicated.
5.  but the slightest **gust** of wind **rippling** the ocean surface would turn a shark`s **sleek** outline into a cubist abstraction.
6.  **menacing** creatures into vulnerable animals worthy of respect and protection.
7.  **From one picture have come countless chances to tell people more about sharks---conversations that often begin in fear and ignorance but end in fascination.**

### Baby, you can`t drive my car (The economist - 20210710)	

1. The local news station that the moving company had received calls from concerned citizens who thought the vehicles`  	position looked suspicious.
2.  Hawaii is not the only state where Americans are resorting to unusual forms of transports to get around.
3.  The country is facing a national shortage of rental cars because of the recession and disruptions cause by the pandemic.
4. Americans **hankering** for a getaway but unable to travel **abroad** have set their sights on Hawaii, Florida or the national parks. Demand for rental cars has rocketed.
5. For rental-car companies, rebuilding fleets will take time. An international shortage of semiconductors, which are used in cars` electronic systems, has showed manufacturing.
6.  It seems that the rental car markets would have to get even tighter for Americans to fall in love with public transport.


