# 15th July, 2021

## Dark skies and silver linings (The economist -20210710)

1. *The pandemic with its lockdowns and travel bans, has **clobber** the world`s airline.*
2. *Revenues per passenger-kilometre, the industry`s common measure of performance, plummeted by 66% in 2020. compared with 2019.*
3. *forecasters reckon that air travel will take until 2024 to return to 2019 levels.*
4. *Many have been **torching** cash as fast as their aeroplanes burn jet fuel.*
5. *Big American and Chinese ones with large, increasingly virus-free domestic markets will return to profitability first. **Frugal** low- cost carriers that went into the pandemic in the black are close behind. By contrast, airlines that depend on **lucrative** long-haul routes may struggle if, as seems almost inevitable, business travellers substitute Zoom for at least some flights.*
6. ***Diverging** fortunes are nothing new in the airline business.*
7. *To keep flying, airlines need “strong balance-sheets or a parent with deep pockets.”*
8. *State support leads to “inappropriate cost bases.”*
9. *Moreover, **bail-out** do not guarantee long term success even in combination with a healthy pre-pandemic balance-sheets.*
10. *The rebound in domestic flying favours American and Chinese airlines. **Last year China, where covid-19 emerged but was suppressed more successfully than in the West, overtook America as the world`s biggest domestic market by capacity.***
11. *In Europe, by contrast, **fragmented** as the continent is by national borders, the number of short-haul flights is still 55% below  what is was before covid-19 hit.*
12. ***whereas full-service carriers elsewhere might rely on the big seats at the front of intercontinental flights for half their revenues (and up to 75% of profits).***
13. *their costly geopolitical obligation to expend loss-making international routes put on ice because of covid-19, the trio are in a better shape than ever before.*
14. *The domestic rebound and growing confidence have helped American and Chinese airlines raise each and avoid protracted state support.*
15. ***Importantly, the American companies have avoided the need to sell equity stakes to Uncle Sam.***
16. *Its parent company, IAG, moved swiftly to slash costs, retire older and thirstier aircraft, delay deliveries of new planes and return leased aircraft with lost of unwanted **premium** seats.*
17. *Catching up with high-flying American and Chinese oligopolists, or with the cheap and cheerful European firms, is not impossible.*