# 16th July, 2021

## Too hot to live(National Geographic - July 2021)

1. The human body has evolved to shed heat in two main ways: Blood vessels swell, carrying heat to the skin so it can radiate away, and sweat erupts onto the skin, cooling it by evaporation.
2. Blood pressure drops inducing dizziness, stumbling, and the slurring of speech.
3. A heart attack may fell the **infirm** at this point, but the more fit may persist to suffer tunnel vision, **hallucinations**, and perhaps the **stripping** of clothes that, with nerve endings **aflame**, feel like sandpaper.
4. Superheated over the Mediterranean, the giant **swirling** air mass **rebuffed** **incursions** of cooler Atlantic air for several weeks.
5. In Paris it had raised the risk of heat-related **mortality** that year by about 70 percent.
6. Among the many climatic threats that scientists associate with global warming ---stronger and more destructive hurricanes, drought, rising sea levels, longer fire season---an uptick in heat wave is the most **intuitive** and immediate.
7. The ultimate solution to global warming, of course, is to drastically reduce our greenhouse gas emissions.
8. And even if we do **rein** in emissions, the planet will continue to warm for decades.
9. Extreme heat has **pernicious** effects even when it is not **lethal**.
10. By 2050, high heat and humidity in the American Southeast likely will **render** the entire growing season “unsafe for agricultural work with present-day work practices,” researchers at the University of Washington have reported.
11. Humans, along with their crops and their livestock, evolved over the past 10,000 years in a rather narrow climate **niche**, centered on an annual average temperature of about 55 F(nearly 12.8 C). Our bodies readily adapt to higher temperatures, but there are limits to how much heat and humidity we can tolerate.
12. Taking a long walk in these conditions, to say nothing of harvesting tomatoes or filling a highway **pothole** , could be fatal.
13. Billions of people will face a stark choice: Migrate to cooler climates, or stay and adapt.
14. The problem of extreme heat is mortally **entangled** with larger social problems, including access to housing, to water, and to health care.