# 14th Aug, 2021 - 20th Aug, 2021

## 14th Aug, 2021

### Last chance (TE - 20210814)

1. Never mind that the **insurgents** refused any kind of ceasefire; never mind that they offered nothing more than indirect negotiations with the American-backed government in Kabul.
2. A revived Taliban emirate will not just abuse Afghans; it will spread misery around the region.
3. Yet instead of joining forces to curb the Taliban, regional powers are **bickering** and **jostling** for advantage.
4. But America might yet be able to **stave** that off without **reinstating** a permanent **garrison**.
5. Over the past 20 years America has not managed to turn Afghanistan into a flourishing democracy, but it can still stop it from reverting to a violent theocracy.

## 15th Aug, 2021

### Getting off the ground (TE - 2021812)

1. The disruptive effects of covid-19 on travel will long **outlast** the chaotic summer.
2. Britain has introduced rules of tooth-**grinding** complexity. In theory its traffic-light system rates countries by covid-19 risk and sets travel rules accordingly. In practice it is arbitrary, unpredictable and constantly changing.
3. Policies in America are equally **baffling**.
4. All around the world, a **jumble** of rules causes confusion, chokes tourism and leaves businesses struggling to work out who can do what and go where.
5. All of this means travel will remain out of reach for many and messy for all for some time.
6. **Travelers** must **scour** **myriad** ministry and airport websites to piece together the rules.
7. And airline crews struggle with the different forms and passes, often giving a **cursory** glance and waving people through rather than scanning QR codes.
8. The loss is made more **galling** by rules that often make no sense.
9. Even then, **daft** rules could stick.
10. The risk is that these rules and regulations may outlive their purpose not because governments cannot undo them, but because no politician wants to be the first to try.

## 16th Aug, 2021

### Open up

1. For those who dream of a return to the old days, this might sound appealing. For the rest of humanity, it is a **scourge.**
2. Business travellers helped their **employers** conquer new markets, while **simultaneously** creating jobs for **concierge** and cabbies. Foreign students subsidised their their native-born classmates, brought a different perspective to campus and took new ideas back to their homelands.
3. have managed to keep out the virus through truly **draconian** restrictions.
4. Britain, which has injected its citizens with some 5m doses of the AstraZeneca vaccine made in India, refuses to **exempt** from quarantine Indians **inoculated** with the same potion.
5. This does not mean a free-for-all, but any restrictions should be limited, temporary and aimed at slowing the import of new variants--rather than the impossible mission of stopping it altogether.
6. Discriminating against people on the basis of something over which they have no choice is unfair. It also undermines the global vaccination effort by making some vaccines seem second-class.

## 17th Aug, 2021

### Leaves, limbs, and lights

1. But to build a complex, multicelled organism from those cells almost always requires them to come in more than one type.
2. If water is in short supply they clamp down, reducing the rate of photosynthesis but stopping the plant from drying out.
3. Stomata aside, plant behaviour is largely a matter of growth to permit greater access to water and minerals from below, and sunlight and carbon dioxide from above.
4. The immune system will try to stop such uncontrolled growth--but mutations which  cause it to turn a blind eye often crop up too.

## 18th Aug, 2021

### A new reality

1. The IPCC`s latest report is **starker**, more certain--and underlines how climate change is already making its effects felt.
2. Last time around the two categories were roughly level **pegging**.
3. The total amount by which the planet will heat up depends pretty closely on **cumulative** greenhouse-gas emissions.
4. To avoid **busting** that budget would require the whole world, not just rich countries, to get net emissions of carbon dioxide down to zero before 2050.
5. What is more, those scenarios mandate not just heroic emission cuts but also “negative emissions” --techniques that actively remove carbon dioxide from the atmosphere, thus paying back some of the carbon budget spent previously.
6. Since such removals now offer the only way of **reconciling** the modest near-term cuts currently enshrined in national policies with the much more dramatic long-term ambitions those same countries proclaim.
7. higher sea levels will raise the risk, as will the greater frequency of the most intense **tropical cyclones.**
8. Generally speaking, what is wet becomes wetter, what is dry, drier, and what is uncommon more common.
9. Recommendations about what to do are not part of this report`s remit. But nevertheless is pushes hard for more and stronger action on **methane**
10. **Sulphates** are given off mostly by coal plants and the sorts of heavy fuel oils that power big ship.
11. Deciding how much action to take on climate change is politically hard, because it means imposing high costs today for largely hidden benefits tomorrow.

## day6

## day7