# 31th July, 2021 - 6th Aug, 2021

## 31th July, 2021

### Dashed hopes (TE - 20210731)

1. At the start of the century, developing economies were a source of unbounded optimism and **fierce** ambition.
2. This wave of unrest and authoritarianism partly reflects covid-19, which has exposed and exploited vulnerabilities, from rotten bureaucracies to **frayed social safety-nets.**
3. In the early 2000s they **buzzed** with talk of “catch-up”: the idea that poorer countries could prosper by absorbing foreign technology, investing in manufacturing and opening up their economies to trade, as a handful of East Asian tiger economies had done a generation earlier.
4. This golden age now looks as if it has come to a premature end.
5. Fortunately most emerging economies are less brittle than they were, because they have floating exchange rates and rely less on foreign-currency debt.

## 1th Aug, 2021

### Get poor quickly (TE - 20210731)

1. A lot of foreign investors interpreted it as a slap-down to China`s best-known billionaire and thus a warning to the country``s other **plutocrats** not to get too big for their boots.
2. It wishes to see capital raised on its own exchanges, within its **purview** and on the terms that it dictates.
3. There is a body of jurisprudence that limits how far the authorities can go in clipping the wings of tech giants, even those making profits many find **obscene.**
4. If Chinese rivals are **mired** in red tape, that is all to the good of big tech in America.
5. The capital markets are not a tap that regulators can turn on and off when it suits them.

## 2th Aug, 2021

### Faceworld (TE - 20210731)

1. Facebook has always had two faces. One is the **grimace** of a firm that many people, in particular politicians, love to hate.
2. The other face is a happy one of a firm that users, advertisers and investors cannot live without.
3. This glass amplifies the good (neighborly help amid the pandemic) as well as the bad (conspiracy theories and **quack** cures). It also serves as a remarkable **lens** for advertisers to focus on the world`s consumers.
4. At its core Facebook is giant advertising machine.
5. Today it is a unthinkable to run an online consumer business without targeted ads as it once was to run one with no shopfront.
6. With trustbusters looking on, it is instead placing a series of big bets. The first is on the “creator economy”, where people make money from digital works.
7. If shoppers spend more time and leave more data on its platform the inability to follow them elsewhere on the web becomes less important.
8. That would make Facebook cool again. It would also bring more scrutiny from critics worried about the firm`s power.

## 3th Aug, 2021

### Fired up (TE - 20210731)

1. Governments say they want to build back better and greener, and have announced ambitious plans to kick the fossil-fuel habit.
2. In Asia and Europe a hot summer has booted demand for imports of liquefied natural gas.
3. S&P Gobal Platts, a research firm, reckons that demand in parts of Asia and Europe partly reflects the need to replenish stores ahead of the winter.
4. reckons that high natural-gas prices may encourage power producers to favour coal-burning plants over gas-fired generators.
5. Steel mills along China`s coast rushed to find alternatives.

## 4th Aug, 2021

### Back to prop swinging (TE - 20210731)

1. A new kind of aircraft engine aims to combine the efficiency of propellers with the speed of jets.
2. Although the propfan promise a big reduction in fuel consumption the engine failed to enter commercial service, mostly because oil prices fell, but also because **conventional** jet engines became more efficient.
3. Engineers int America and Europe continued to **tinker** with propfans. 
4. The idea behind a propfan is to combine the fuel economy of a propeller with the speed of jet engine.
5. A fan rather than a propeller (as on a turboprop aircraft) is used because aerodynamic effects cause propellers to lose efficiency at high speed. This happens when the moving tips of a large propeller **blade** reach supersonic speeds, setting off shack waves which disrupt the airflow.
6. Unlike the AN-70`s engines, though, it will used a single rotating open-fan. It does have a second ring of blades immediately behind the front fan, but these do not spin. Instead, they act as vanes that guide the flow of air backwards.
7. The combination of a single ring of blades, and advances in **acoustic** design should let the engine meet current and anticipated noise regulations.

## 5th Aug, 2021

### Methods and madness (TE - 20210731)

1. Data don`t lie----but they can lead scientists to opposite conclusions.
2. But gathering the data and running an experiment is not the only part of the process that can go **awry**. The methods chosen to analyze the data can also influence results.
3. an online forum for **chatty intellectuals.**
4. As it turned out, no two analysts employed exactly the same methods, and none got the same results.
5. The problem was not that any of the analyses were “wrong” in any objective sense. The differences arose because researchers chose different definitions of what they were studying, and applied different techniques.
6. Truth, in other words, can be a **slippery** customer, even for simple-sounding questions.
7. But if many different analytical approaches point in the same direction, then scientists can be confident that their conclusion is the right one.

## 6th Aug, 2021

### The nose knows (TE - 20210731)

1. Dogs can sell things at **concentrations** of one part in a trillion ---equivalent to a single drop in a pond the size of 20 Olympic swimming pools.
2. Trained dogs can sniff out explosive and drugs, track missing people, and even guide **truffle**-hunters to their prizes.
3. Dogs are not, then, a practical answer to the question of how to detect illness quickly, before it get **grip**.
4. Along with technology **tailored** to their talents, they could provide economical, easy and **noninvasive** way of detecting cancer, and also offer an alternative to laboratory tests for covid that might be welcome in countries with limited budgets.
5. Dr.Galizia has genetically modified his flies so that when they detect **odoriferous**  molecules, the resulting brain activity generates fluorescence under a microscope.
6. That would only be done if there was already suspicion that something was wrong---rather defeating the point of a screening test.
7. Instead, he hopes to find combinations of chemical-receptor **proteins** that can distinguish between **urine** from people with and without cancer. Those proteins could be **integrated** into **sensor** silicon chips.
8. He found that the worms tended to crawl towards urine from cancer patients and **shy away from urine from the healthy.**
9. But doctors have been encourage to use their noses to assist diagnosis since the time of Hippocrates. Having a little olfactory assistance from invertebrates might be no bad thing.





