# 7th Aug, 2021 - 13th Aug, 2021

## 7th Aug, 2021

### The people`s panopticon (TE - 20210807)

1. Open-source intelligence is a welcome threat to malefactors, and government with something to hide.
2. The great hope of the 1990s and 2000s was that the Internet would be a force for openness and freedom.
3. Information wants to be free, because the cost of getting it out is getting lower and lower all the time. It was not to be. Bad information often drove out good.
4. And over time, researchers and investigators can build a reputation for honesty, sound analysis and good judgment, making it easier for people to distinguish trustworthy sources of intelligence from **charlatans**.
5. The greatest worry is that the explosion of data behind open-source investigations also threatens individual privacy.
6. The privacy of individuals in a digital age is **fraught** with trade-offs.

## 8th Aug, 2021

### Layers of power (TE - 20210807)

1. Cells are the basic units of life, and provide it with the mechanisms through which food and sunlight are turned into usable energy.
2. That is the role of the cell **membrane**, a flexible film made largely of lipids.
3. When put into a watery solution they naturally form double layers in which the water-tolerant heads are no the outside and the water-**wary** bits on the inside.
4. What is more, the disposition of **membranes** **determines** what sort of cell it is.
5. Your own body has roughly as many single-celled **prokaryotes** living on and inside it(mostly in the gut) as it has **eukaryotic** cells making up muscles, nerves, bones, blood and so on.
6. Such cells are typically a lot larger than almost all **prokaryotic** ones and are capable of a far greater diversity in both form and function. Their **versatility** is seen in the wide range of shapes they take, from the conjoined starbursts of nerve cells to the **creeping** **mutable** **blobbiness** of **amoebae.**
7. The only way to create a cell in which all the necessary processes are up and running is to start off with another such cell in which they are already doing so.
8. Proteins **embedded** in such membranes pump molecules in the opposite direction to maintain the distinction between inside and out.
9. **Respiration** breaks molecules of **glucose** down into carbon dioxide and water through a suite of reactions called the citric-acid cycle.
10. Photosynthesis uses the energy of sunlight to liberate electrons from water molecules, thus creating oxygen and also hydrogen ions ready for pushing across the membrane.

## 9th Aug, 2021

### Veni, Nvidia, Vici (TE - 20210807)

1. That may be a little **hyperbolic** coming  from the boss of a company whose market value has increased from $31bn to \$505bn in five years and which has eclipsed Intel, once the world`s **mightiest** chipmaker, by selling hight-performance semiconductors for gaming and artificial intelligence.
2. in this fast-moving market “only the **paranoid** survive”.
3. It has created a broad, deep **“moat”** that protects its competitive advantage.
4. The idea is to use Arm\`s design prowess to engineer central processing units for data centres and AI uses that would complement Nvidia\`s existing strength in specialized chips known as graphics-processing units.
5. Today its AI hardware-software combo is designed to work **seamlessly** with the machine-learning algorithms collected in libraries such as TensorFlow, kept by Google, and Facebook`s PyTorch.
6. The firm has created programs to hook its hardware and software up to the IT systems of big business clients with AI projects of their own.
7. Tricks such as **outsourcing** computing to the cloud or using software to split a physical computer into several virtual machines may run their course.
8. Advanced Micro Devices(AMD), a veteran chipmaker that is Nvidia\`s main rival in the gaming market and Intel`s in CPUs.
9. Even if one of the antitrust watchdogs puts paid to the deal, however, Nvidia`s prospects look bright.
10. Mr Huang says that it is the expense of training and running AI applications that matters, not the cost of hardware **components**.

## 10th Aug, 2021

### How to buffer against an urban food shortage (nature - 20210707)

1. Such shortages have a range of possible causes, including droughts and heatwaves, pest and disease outbreaks, financial downturns and trade policies. More recently, the COVID-19 pandemic has led academics and society more generally, to revisit the question of how fragile urban food supplies really are.

### Pinned by chips (TE - 20210807)

1. A side-effect of a global pandemic has denied carmakers a more vital component.
2. Expecting weak sales, in 2020 carmakers **pared** back orders of electronics, and then underestimated the rapidity if recovery this year.
3. Carmakers`s initial response has been to make more vehicles that require fewer chips, or to use the scarce resources to build their most profitable models.
4. Big suppliers, fearful of losing out as carmakers **cosy** up to chip firms, are being forced to up their game.
5. As the industry **braces** for a more electric and electronic future, it can ill afford to leave its fate in someone else`s hands.

## 11th Aug, 2021

### A green and level field (TE - 20210807)

1. Among cement and steelmakers, which got free allowances for four-fifths of their exhausts to stop the shift of production abroad, they have barely **budged**
2. And the costs will be hard to pass on, because consumers are reluctant to pay more for low-carbon products.
3. Firm`s reaction has been mixed. Many profess to support the energy transition but **gripe** about the rules.
4. Others will hedge by buying extra allowances when carbon prices are low, as power companies now do routinely.
5. The EU may need more carrots to go with its new stick.

## 12th Aug, 2021

### Well-founded fears (TE - 20210807)

1. More people are fleeing intolerable conditions in their home countries. Fewer government are willing to take them in.
2. The refugee convention, adopted on July 28th 1951, governs the obligations that states have to people who flee their countries because of a “well-founded fear” of persecution “for reasons of race, religion, nationality, membership of a particular social group or political opinion”. States must not send them back to danger, a principle called non-refoulement.
3. If the convention has provoked a **backlash**, that is largely because the world has changed since its adoption.
4. A big reason is that refugees are hard to distinguish from the much larger group of migrants who just want to improve their lives.
5. Is it the sort of peril that tis grounds for offering protection under the refugee convention and a **mesh** of other treaties?
6. His Justice Department directed immigration courts which, unusually for the rich world, are answerable to politicians, to narrow their interpretation of refugee law.
7. Victims of gangs had to show their government would not or could not protect them.
8. The next evening the coastguard tool them back to sea, forced them into inflatable **rafts** without paddles and abandoned them.
9. It signed the convention but with a “geographical limitation” that obliges it to protect only refugees who come from Europe.
10. But, keen as rich countries are on the idea that refugees should stay as close to home as possible, they do relatively little to help the countries that host them.
11. And Western countries continue to **duck** their obligations to the migrants  who do manage to reach their borders.
12. To avoid traducing the treaty as it turns 70, governments will have to spend more money and show more courage than they have done so far.

## 13th Aug, 2021

### A self-solving problem

1. Markets, not nationalism and subsidies, are the cure for the chip shortage.
2. One firm\`s crisis is another`s opportunity.
3. The shortage is the result of a sudden surge in demand. Chipmaking is a cyclical business which, between the peaks and troughs, has been enjoying strong growth for decades as computers creep into every corner of society.
4. The result has been a spike in demand for the semiconductors that power the data centers and **gadgets** that make such things possible, clogging factories with orders.
5. The car industry`s size and **clout** mean that it is used to ordering suppliers around. But when demand recovered, it found itself at the back of the queue, because of long lead times and competition for capacity from the even bigger and more influential tech industry.
6. The unpleasant experience of being the **supplicant** rather than the boss has **prodded** carmakers to take tighter control over supplies of vital components.

