# 2021-09

## 14th Sep, 2021

### The cracked egg(TE - 20210911)

1. Vaccinations have allowed some countries to bounce back rapidly, even as other struggle.
2. In 2000 the total daily salary bill for everyone working in inner London was twice what it was in the outer boroughs; by 2019 it was three times as high.
3. The economic recovery from the covid-19 pandemic is **lopsided** in many ways.
4. The **exodus** from urban areas at the start of the pandemic.
5. Some parts of SF feel more like an abandoned **rust-belt** city than a tech hub.
6. Transactions in the current environment have migrated from dense metro centers to suburbs and from cafes to drive-throughs.
7. by cramming lots of different people into a small space, help foster new ideas and technologies.

## 18th Sep, 2021

### Seeking bolts from the blue

1. At the moment, space-going junk is mapped mostly by radar. But of a estimated 34,000 orbiting objects ten or more centimetres across, only about 29,000 are being tracked with reasonable accuracy.
2. the accuracy of America`s debris tracking has improved by an “extraordinary, marvellous” order of magnitude, to a few tens of matres.
3. To do this its position must be recorded several times, to observe how its path is being altered by the gravitational pulls of the Earth, Moon and sun, the pressure imposed on it by solar radiation and, in low orbits, the drag caused by **wayward** wisps of air from the upper atmosphere.
4. The closer an object, the more it appears to move relative to the starts, allowing **triangulation** of its position.
5. The company is adding a couple of sites a year, to improve the **degree** of precision.
6. Even so, back at LeoLabs Dr Ceperley reckons that ten times more tracking capability is needed than is available today.
7. Footage from the mission will be used in a feature-length final episode later this month.

## 27th Sep, 2021

### Neutral but not idle(TE - 20210925)

1. Metal banding lends its **facade** the glittering look of a silicon **wafer** **etch** with microcircuitry.
2. the most complex equipment humanity has ever devised.
3. IMEC acted as a **conduit** in that process.
4. do not want to place all their bets on any one experimental idea that is expensive and could become **obsolete.**
5. in part to keep pace with the rising price of all the chip-making equipment that IMEC must procure.
6. Communist Party striving for self-sufficiency, and ever more **ostracised** by outsiders as a result of American and European export controls.
7. Less chip-making know-how flowing to China and less streaming out of it means that Chinese engineers` idea can no longer be integrated with the global technology base of which IMEC is the **custodian**. 
8. scans chips to create a 3D image so that multiple processors can be **aligned** and **affixed** --- **fiddly** business at nanometre scales.

## 29th Sep, 2021

### Through a shimmering looking glass (TE - 20210925)

1. Tomorrow`s soldiers will have their reality augmented. Relevant information will be superimposed on their view of the battlefield.
2. AR(augmented reality) is the art of superimposed computer graphic on a view of the real world.
3. A latency of just seven milliseconds risks causing vestibular ocular discomfort, a type of dizziness that has long plagued the development of realistic displays of augmented and virtual reality. 



